Add configuration-files example (#51)
avenga/couper-examples: configuration-files/README.md

* [Configuration files](#configuration-files)
    * [Split by topic](#split-by-topic)
        * [The base](#the-base)
        * [API](#api)
        * [Result](#result)
    * [Different Access-Control](#different-access-control)
        * [Base](#base)
        * [Dockerfile](#dockerfile)
        * [Stage environment file](#stage-environment-file)
        * [Production environment file](#production-environment-file)

# Configuration files

> Couper gets configured by a [configuration-file](https://github.com/avenga/couper/tree/master/docs#configuration-file) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Couper gets configured by a [configuration file](https://github.com/avenga/couper/tree/master/docs#configuration-file) and
```

> with the [latest 1.9 release](https://github.com/avenga/couper/releases/latest) Couper has an option to handle multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as of the [1.9 release](https://github.com/avenga/couper/releases/tag/v1.9.0) Couper has an option to handle multiple
```

Reviewer: Better rephrase: Otherwise we'll have to remember to change that line when releasing 1.10.

> configuration-files: the configuration-directory. This directory can be passed as an argument along with a configuration-file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration files: the configuration directory. This directory can be passed as an argument along with a configuration file
```

or as standalone argument.

This enables you to split up a Couper configuration by content or even by environment. This is solved by [merging](https://github.com/avenga/couper/blob/master/docs/MERGE.md) the top-level
declarations and replacing nested ones. Details are explained in our [merge documentation](https://github.com/avenga/couper/blob/master/docs/MERGE.md).

## Split by topic

> Let's say we have some api endpoints which could be extracted out of a base configuration which just describes basics
> like files, spa serving or default environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we have some API endpoints which could be extracted out of a base configuration which just describes basics
like files, SPA serving or default environment variables.
```

### The base

We start with a simple SPA configuration and some file serving:

```hcl
server {
  files {
    document_root = "/htdocs"
  }

  spa {
    bootstrap_file = "/htdocs/index.html"
    paths = ["/", "/app"]
  }

  set_response_headers = {
    x-service = env.SERVICE_NAME
  }
}

defaults {
  environment_variables = {
    SERVICE_NAME = "example"
  }
}
```

### API

> The API part describes two api services and their related environment default values for e.g. local development:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API part describes a service and the related environment default values for e.g. local development:
```

```hcl
server {
    api "serviceA" {
        base_path = "/api/v1/service-a"
        endpoint "/**" {
            proxy {
                url = "http://${env.SERVICE_A_ORIGIN}/"
            }
        }
    }
}

defaults {
    environment_variables = {
        SERVICE_A_ORIGIN = "http://localhost:8080"
        SERVICE_NAME = "service-a"
    }
}
```

#### Environment Variables

> The `environment_variables` attribute within the `defaults` block has an exception during the merge process. The map-value
> will be merged by key instead of the whole map. This allows to override or add specific environment defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `environment_variables` map within the `defaults` block is handled differently during the merge process: Its values
are merged one by one by their key instead of replacing the whole map. This allows to override or add specific environment defaults.
```

### Result

The following configuration would be the one Couper will finally load if we provide the directory with these two files.

The Couper container basically runs already with the argument `-d /conf` inside the container which enables us to just mount
our `./conf-a` directory to `/conf`. Also, the Couper welcome page already exists within `/htdocs`.

```shell

> docker run --pull -v $(PWD)/conf-a:/conf -p 8080:8080 avenga/couper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run --pull -v ${PWD}/conf-a:/conf -p 8080:8080 avenga/couper
```

This is the reason why we will reference an undefined access-control. Couper won't start up in this case, and you may get
instant feedback from your deployment jobs.

For development purposes you could add a configuration file with an empty `access_control` list to negate the `undefined` reference.

```hcl
server {
  access_control = ["undefined"]
  files {
    document_root = "/htdocs"
  }
}
```

### Dockerfile

Docker provides build arguments which we will use to switch between our environment files while building the Couper container image.
The `HCL_FILE` argument will fall back to `couper.hcl` if we do not provide this argument at all.

```Dockerfile
FROM avenga/couper:edge

ARG HCL_FILE=couper.hcl

# copy base configuration
COPY couper.hcl /conf/couper.hcl
# copy environment base overlay configuration
COPY $HCL_FILE /conf/
```

So building the container with:

```shell
docker build -t couper-env-example -f Dockerfile .
```

and run:

```shell
docker run -p 8080:8080 couper-env-example

# output:
# {"level":"error","message":"accessControl is not defined: undefined"}
```

results in our expected error.

### Stage environment file

> So lets build the image again and let's add the `stage.hcl` to the build process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So let's build the image again and this time add the `stage.hcl` to the build process:
```

```hcl
server {
  access_control = ["my-ba"]
}

definitions {
  basic_auth "my-ba" {
    password = "test"
  }
}
```

To do so we add the docker related build argument:

```shell
docker build -t couper-env-example --build-arg=HCL_FILE=stage.hcl -f Dockerfile .
```

Now we will run our image again:

```shell
docker run -p 8080:8080 couper-env-example
```

Just visit [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/) in your browser, so you will see a basic-auth prompt.
Your Stage environment is protected now. Enter `test` as value into the password field, and you will see the Couper welcome page.

### Production environment file

The advantage to switch to a complete other `access_control` mechanism could be very handy if you have to use a specific SSO or other provider
to handle the permissions.

So let's switch from **basic-auth** to **jwt** with the `production.hcl` configuration file.

```hcl
server {
  access_control = ["my-jwt"]
}

definitions {

>     jwt "my-jwt" {
>       jwks_url = "https://demo-idp.couper.io/jwks.json"
>       required_claims = ["role", "sub", "exp"]
>       claims = {
>         iss = "https://demo-idp.couper.io/"
>       }
>     }
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  jwt "my-jwt" {
    jwks_url = "https://demo-idp.couper.io/jwks.json"
    required_claims = ["role", "sub", "exp"]
    claims = {
      iss = "https://demo-idp.couper.io/"
    }
  }
}
```

```

We will build the docker image again and change the build arguments value.

```shell
docker build -t couper-env-example --build-arg=HCL_FILE=production.hcl -f Dockerfile .
```

Now run our image again:

```shell
docker run -p 8080:8080 couper-env-example
```

If we visit our endpoint again:

```shell
curl -i http://localhost:8080/

HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Cache-Control: private
Couper-Error: access control error
Couper-Request-Id: c9h4mdp473ds73dnvsvg
Server: couper.io
```

We will get a 401 response without basic-auth related headers and no prompt. Additionally, the couper log output:

`"level":"error","message":"access control error: my-jwt: bearer required with authorization header"`

> Let's retry the request with a valid jwt token. Just visit [https://demo-idp.couper.io/](https://demo-idp.couper.io/) and copy the generated token. Use this token with our next call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's retry the request with a valid JWT token. Just visit [https://demo-idp.couper.io/](https://demo-idp.couper.io/) and copy the generated token. Use this token with our next call:
```

# X-Service: service-a
```

The `SERVICE_NAME` environment value `example` got also replaced with `service-a`.

You may have read how the files will be merged by file-name-order. A `couper.hcl` will be prioritized within this directory

> which makes this file a good starting point for our base configuration.

Reviewer: Drop last sentence or whole paragraph.

Author: dropped, load hint is mentioned at the beginning.

}
```

```shell
docker build -t couper-env-example -f Dockerfile .
```

Now we will run our image again and just combine the base (`couper.hcl`) with our `stage.hcl` file:

```shell

> docker run -p 8080:8080 couper-env-example run -f /conf/couper.hcl -f stage.hcl

Reviewer: `-f /conf/stage.hcl`
